# Introduction - Personal learning plan Smart Environments GRS35306 Aniek Henken 1001640

## Background / expectations course
I did the bachelor environmental sciences in Wageningen, with a major in environmental quality and system analysis and a minor in earth and environment. Currently I am doing my masters in climate studies, which I started last period. During my bachelor I followed the introductory course for both Python and GIS. And in my thesis I did a data analysis in Python with a some very basic machine learning, both which I found very interesting. Although my knowledge on data science is limited and my python skills are not really impressing, I do think both are good skills to have in this modernized and data-overflowing world. Especially since there is a lot of data in environmental and climate studies. So that’s why I want to improve them!  

I was looking for some interesting data science courses, and the smart environment seemed like the perfect combination of data sciences implemented in an environmental context. I think I do have a lot of knowledge on the latter part. However, my knowledge gaps definitely lie within the data part of the course. In my studies so far I have mostly used self-collected data or already well-structured data. Since I only have very basic knowledge on working with Python, GIS and working with data sets I think I can learn a lot about these in the smart environment course. 

My expectations for the course are of course to improve on my learning goals, but also to improve on my collaboration skills and asking for help on the topics I am not really familiar with. I really like the setup of the course, focussing on a group project instead of an exam. For me it has also been some time since I had such an intensely group focused course, but I do think it is an environment in which I thrive, so I am looking forward to it. 

## Learning goals
1.	I want to get familiar with making Jupyter notebooks. I have never worked with Jupyter notebooks before and want to learn how to make well-structured Jupyter notebooks. To achieve this goal I will be practising with tutorials on Jupyter notebooks, and at the end of this course I will produce three working Python Jupyter notebooks for my other three learning goals, by which I can also show the progress I have made on this learning goal.
---
2.	I want to learn how to find and acquire relevant web-based data. Currently I have very little knowledge on where to find relevant and useful data. In my studies so far I have mostly collected my own data during field- and lab work or worked with already available data. At the end of this course I want to know where I can find available data sets, be able to easily filter through these data sets, and know how to download them into python. Therefore I will produce a working Python Jupyter notebook with a procedure that demonstrates a commonly used way to find and acquire relevant datasets. 
---
3.	I want to learn how to perform statistical analyses on large volumes of data. Currently I have some basic knowledge on how to perform statistical analyses, but have never structurally applied this to large volumes of data. At the end of this course I want to know relevant techniques for analysing data. Therefore I will produce a working Python Jupyter notebook with a procedure that demonstrates a commonly used way to perform statistical analyses on large volumes of data in a structural way. 
*Instead of looking at multiple statistical analyses I have decided to look into only one. I wanted to learn more on machine learning, especially on the random forest algorithm.* 
---
3.	I want to learn how to visualise and communicate geospatial data in a relevant and easy-to-understand way. Currently I have some knowledge on visualising and communicating data, but very little experience visualising and communicating geospatial data . At the end of this course I want to know how to make relevant visualisations for geospatial data and therefore will produce a Jupyter notebook in which I describe how to make at least three different visualisation methods for geospatial data and their pros and cons. 
*Instead of looking at boxplot and scatterplots, which ive done plenty of times before, I have decided to focus on learning methods for the visualising of geospatial data.*

Please check out the Notebook files to see how I worked on accomplishing these learning goals. 
