# Reflection Smart Environments GR35306 Aniek Henken 1001640
## Group work / boundary crossing competences
The course was structured around the group project. These groups were made up of people from different study backgrounds. In order to properly work together there needed to be a bit more effort. What I liked about this is that everyone could learn something from each other, everyone had their own knowledge to add to the group. I think we made a good team: one person from my group was skilled within the data science part of the project, the two others were used to working with spatial data and experts in programmes like ArcGIS and as an environmental sciences student myself, I knew a lot more on the nitrogen crisis and its components compared to the other. I learned where to find relevant spatial datasets, learned a lot more about programming in general and also made maps within ArcGIS together, and it was very nice to get an introduction to new topics in this way. However, I do feel like there was not enough time to really learn the new skills well enough to also apply this within the group project. What I mean is that everyone was still kind of working mostly within their own knowledge circle, because this was the easiest to do. Of course this is quite logical, but I felt that sometimes I could not add as much to the project as the others could, especially on the programming parts. I did really enjoy that everyone had a different view on our topic, which in the end brought out the best of everyone’s expertise. 

We also had people with different nationalities within our group, which I think was never actually a struggle. Everyone approached it very open minded and curious. We talked a lot about our different cultures and even introduced each other to snacks. One thing that I would say we did very well, was that we discussed our boundaries in the beginning of the project, which can be very different for different cultures. For instance, we talked about working after class and how everyone thought about this. By discussing this in the first week we already had a good picture of how people liked to work and what we could expect, which I think prevented us from having any problems within the group. 


## Project outcomes / societal implications
The aim of our project was to see if relevant spatial patterns can arise from a sentiment analysis on tweets regarding the crisis and if the results could provide a helpful additional tool for decision making in governance on the nitrogen crisis.  The idea was that it could help to locally implement or adjust policies or identify areas in which better communication needs to happen between the government and the inhabitants. We managed to perform and find out the sentiments of persons tweeting in different areas of the Netherlands. 

The main pitfall for our actual analysis was that we had too little data and had to upscale our analysis on a provincial level, while we actually wanted to do it on a neighbourhood level. Because of the small dataset and the lack of multiple data-mining methods, there was also much bias in the data. However, our project could definitely serve as a set-up for future research. The project plan can be applied to other societal relevant subject to help identify conflict areas in a similar matter. One thing that is very important to be kept in mind, is that we didn’t have the chance to reobtain consent from the twitter users, while this is very important for future projects  who want to publish their results. It is also very important to be aware of the biases included in datasets and algorithms, so appropriate actions can be taken to minimize the effect on the results, for example by using multiple data sources and analysing techniques, and only ever use the outcome of the project as an additional tool in governing. 

I am proud of the work that we delivered as a team, we did as much as we could do in these weeks and performed the analyses that we had planned. Of course things didn’t always go as plan, like it did with the available data, but we managed to make the best out of it and actually deliver some results. 

## Learning goals
1. Throughout the course I started working with Jupyter Notebooks in the tutorials. This was the first time for me using them. Now I made three working notebooks. I would say I am pretty confident in using and making Notebooks, so this learning goal has been accomplished!
2. Throughout our project we had to look for datasets, this is where I learned from my groupmates where you can find geospatial datasets and how to filter through them. For the other learning goals I also had to find new datasets, which I think went pretty smoothly.  One thing that I would still like to learn is to learn is to find and work with data in other forms like shapefiles and how to manipulate them in arcGIS. I have practiced this a little bit with one of my groupmates, but I want to be able to do it myself as well. 
3. In the course tutorial on Random Forests I learned how to work with the algorithm for classification purposes, now I can also apply it for regression analyses. The accuracy of the model was 78% which is of course not enough to seriously implement the model anywhere. I want to learning how to improve and fine tune the model and apply this to bigger topics. For instance, I would be very interested in using this for future purposes within my own study field and think it could be a relevant tool as an environmental sciences student. This time I trained the model to predict temperatures based on previous days, these kinds of models are also already in use for future temperature rise predictions. For now I think I did come a long way with my learning goal.
4. I think I had to do the most additional research for this learning goal, a lot of trial and error. In the tutorials we had been introduced with some concepts on the visualisation of data but I wanted to try different kinds as well. I would say I am now confident in making multiple forms of maps in python and optimizing them. As I mentioned before, for the future I would like to learn how to work with arcGIS to make even nicer maps and visualisations.


Overall I would say that I have learned a lot since the beginning of this course. I liked that data sciences was approached from multiple angles and applied in a very relevant context. Thank you for reading my personal learning portfolio!

